## HbvNorway 
Spatially distributed HBV hydrological model with land surface characteristics based on N50 geospatial data from Norwegian Mapping Authority

## HbvGeneral 
Spatially distributed HBV hydrological model with general land surface characteristics

## Introduction
The spatially distributed HBV hydrological model is used for modelling the water balance and lateral transport of water in the land phase of the hydrological cycle. The spatial distribution and shape of discrete landscape elements and the time steps of the model may be selected according to the problem to be solved. The model structure is based on Beldring et al. (2003). The requirements for running the model and the procedures for setting up the model definition files are described in the documentation, as well as the variables and parameters used for hydrological process simulations. Model parameters remain constant over time or vary in a manner which may be described using physical principles or empirical relationships. Parameters either represent physically measurable properties of a watershed, or are used to describe hydrological processes. A variable may represent: (i) the state of the different storages in the hydrological system as approximated by the hydrological model; (ii) the input signal which drives the model; or (iii) the output from the model. Variables vary with time. 
Precipitation-runoff models are used for applications that require simulation of the dynamic water balance of a selected area of the land surface, e.g. a watershed. They provide a capability to predict hydrological state variables and fluxes from atmospheric data, with the purpose of for example hydrological forecasts, hydrological impact simulations or management of water resources. Mathematical models simplify the physical processes and replace them by a set of equations, whose solutions are programmed as a computer code. The results of simulations with the mathematical model are interpreted in terms of the physical system. The structure of the models vary in their level of complexity, however, the major mechanisms involved in conversion of precipitation to discharge at the catchment outlet are considered. In addition to describing the physical processes which govern storage and flow of water as subsurface and overland flow through a catchment, precipitation-runoff models must include the various hydrological and radiative processes at the land surface-atmosphere interface; interception storage, evaporation and transpiration, glacier mass balance, snow accumulation and snowmelt. 

## References 
Beldring, S., Engeland, K., Roald, L.A., Sælthun, N.R., Voksø, A. 2003. Estimation of parameters in a distributed precipitation-runoff model for Norway. Hydrology and Earth System Sciences 7, 304-316. https://doi.org/10.5194/hess-7-304-2003

All users of this software shall be responsible for their own applications and for its application by their partners or employees
